Hi, I'm Luca Bartolomei and I'm going to
present you our demo "Robust depth perception
through virtual pattern projection".
Our code, trained models, and paper are
available on our project page.
Given a pair of stereo images, stereo
algorithms try to resolve the so-called
"correspondence problem".
This problem is not always easy: uniform
areas, such as the wall shown in the figure
make the problem ambiguous.
Furthermore, deep stereo networks suffer
when dealing with unseen scenarios.
Active stereo deals with ambiguous regions
using a physical pattern projector, which
aims to ease correspondences.
However, a pattern projector is not feasible
in outdoor scenarios where ambient light
cancels out the projected pattern.
Furthermore, active light decreases
proportionally to the square of the distance:
consequentially, active stereo cannot deal
with long distances.
Inspired by active stereo, our technique,
dubbed VPP, virtually projects a pattern into
stereo image pair according to sparse depth
measurements.
We assume a calibrated setup composed of a
stereo camera and a depth sensor, appropriate
for the final environment.
As shown in the left figure, our proposal
increases dramatically the accuracy of the
stereo network, even with a small percentage
of depth seeds.
Meanwhile, in the right figure, we show that
a LiDAR depth sensor is suitable for outdoor
environments. Our proposal outperforms state
of the art fusion methods even with few depth
points, such as 1% of the whole image.
Finally, as shown in the figure, the virtual
pattern reduces the domain shift issue
without requiring an additional training
procedure.
We resume our proposal with the following
claims: even with few sparse depth seeds, our
virtual patterned paradigm outperforms state
of the art sensor fusion methods; it has a
compelling ability to tackle domain shift
issues; acting before any processing occurs
it can be seamlessly deployed with any
stereo algorithm or deep network without
modifications, and benefit from future
progress in the field.
Moreover, in contrast to active stereo
systems, using a depth sensor in place of a
pattern projector: it can work under
sunlight indoors and outdoors at long and
close ranges, and without any additional
processing cost for the selected stereo
matcher; it is more effective even in the
specific application domain of projector
based systems; it does not require
additional hardware, such as an additional
RGB camera; the virtual projection paradigm
can be tailored on the fly to adapt to the
image content, and is agnostic to dynamic
objects in Egomotion.
As for previous methods, our proposal relies
on sparse depth seeds, but differentially
from them we inject sparse points directly
into images using a virtual pattern.
For each known point, we convert depth into
disparity then we apply a virtual pattern in
each stereo image accordingly to a
patterning strategy.
Our method does not require any change or
assumption in the stereo matcher: we assume
it to be a black box model that requires a
pair of rectified stereo images and produces
a disparity map.
We built a functional prototype composed of
an OAK-D Lite stereo camera with a built in
stereo matching algorithm, and an Intel
RealSense L515 LiDAR as the sparse depth
sensor. We managed to calibrate the setup
using a standard chessboard calibration
algorithm between the IR camera of L515 and
the left camera of OAK-D Lite.
We also built a CNC machined aluminum
support to guarantee a stable calibration
over time. L515 and OAK-D Lite share the
same clock as the host machine and are time
synchronized using the nearest timestamp
algorithm.
Kudos to Bachelor student Nicole Ferrari for
the algorithm implementation.
Firstly, the Intel Realsense L515 captures
sparse depth points with high confidence.
The resulting sparse depth map is
reprojected from the L515 reference frame to
the OAK-D left camera, using the rigid
transformation previously found using the
chessboard calibration algorithm.
Finally, the reprojected depth and the
vanilla pair of stereo images are fed into
our VPP module, which produces two enhanced
stereo images in a fraction of a second.
These VPP images are fed again into the
OAK-D stereo algorithm to obtain a robust
disparity estimation.
Our graphical interface permits us to show
the benefits of our proposal in critical
areas, such as textureless regions, with
respect to the vanilla passive stereo.
Let's see in detail a pair of images enhanced
with our virtual pattern projection.
This illustration shows a Middlebury stereo
frame enhanced with our adaptive random
patch-based virtual pattern.
On the upper part of the left image, we can
appreciate our occlusion handling strategy,
and on the top of the right image, the
corresponding area with subpixel splatting.
Furthermore, as visible in the left-bottom
part of the left image, our virtual pattern
is also projected on the left border
occlusion to maintain consistency.
Lastly, our adaptive patches guarantee the
preservation of depth discontinuities and
thin details. We assess the performance of
our framework using unfiltered depth hints
sourced from off the shelf LiDAR sensors
using data sets such as KITTI, DSEC, and
M3ED. As shown in the figure, our framework
can leverage sparse depth points to solve the
textureless region issue, whereas
traditional projected patterns would be
ineffective. To conclude, we embark on a
comparison between the effectiveness of VPP
against the traditional active stereo setup,
typically composed of an IR stereo camera and
an IR projector, using the SIMSTEREO
dataset.
Some deep networks, such as DLNR, could
often produce artifacts when fed with stereo
pairs acquired with IR pattern projection.
In contrast, the same networks can
seamlessly take advantage of our virtual
patterns. Thanks for the attention.